<xml>
<doc title='013.txt'>

Copenhagen is the capital and most populous city of Denmark, with an urban population of 1,230,728 and a metropolitan population of 1,967,727 (as of 1 October 2013). It is situated on the eastern coast of Zealand, 42  (26) northwest of Malmo, Sweden and 164  (102 ) northeast of Odense. The city stretches across parts of the island of Amager and also contains the enclave of Frederiksberg, a municipality in its own right.
Originally a Viking fishing village founded in the 10th century, Copenhagen became the capital of Denmark in the early 15th century. During the 17th century, under the reign of Christian IV, it developed into an important regional centre, consolidating its position as capital of Denmark and Norway with its institutions, defences and armed forces. After suffering from the effects of plague and fire in the 18th century, the city underwent a period of redevelopment which included the prestigious district of Frederiksstaden and cultural institutions such as the Royal Theatre and the Royal Academy of Fine Arts. After further disasters in the early 19th century when Nelson attacked the Danish fleet and bombarded the city, rebuilding during the Danish Golden Age brought a Neoclassical look to Copenhagen's architecture. Later, following the Second World War, the Finger Plan fostered the creation of housing and businesses along the five urban railway routes stretching out from the city centre.
Since the turn of the llennium, Copenhagen has seen strong urban and cultural development, facilitated by investment in its institutions and infrastructure. The city is the cultural, econoc and governmental centre of Denmark and one of the major financial centres of Northern Europe with the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. In 2012, Copenhagen was third in the ranking of the richest cities in the world in terms of gross earnings, dropping from first place in 2009. Since the completion of the Oresund Bridge, the metropolitan area of Copenhagen has become increasingly integrated with the Swedish province of Scania and its largest city, Malmo, known as the Oresund Region. With a number of bridges connecting the various districts, the cityscape is characterized by parks, promenades and waterfronts. Copenhagen's landmarks such as Tivoli Gardens, the Little Mermaid Statue, the Amalienborg and Christianbsorg palaces, Rosenborg Castle, Frederik's Church, and many museums, restaurants and nightclubs are significant tourist attractions. In addition to recent developments in the city service sector and the pharmaceutical industry, there have been a number of initiatives in clean technology, matching the city's aim to be carbon-neutral by 2025.
Copenhagen has over 94,000 students enrolled in its largest universities and institutions, including the University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen Business School, Metropolitan University College, and the Technical University of Denmark. The University of Copenhagen, founded in 1479, is the oldest university in Denmark, and has repeatedly been ranked as one of the best universities in Europe. Copenhagen is home to the FC Kobenhavn and Brondby football clubs and the ice hockey teams Rodovre ghty Bulls, Herlev Eagles and Hvidovre Ligahockey. The annual Copenhagen Marathon was established in 1980. Copenhagen is one of the most bicycle-friendly cities in the world. The Copenhagen Metro serves central Copenhagen together with the S-train network connecting the outlying boroughs. Serving almost 2 llion passengers a month, Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, is the largest airport in the Nordic countries.

Copenhagen is part of the Oresund Region, which consists of Zealand, Lolland-Falster and Bornholm in Denmark and Scania in Sweden.[52] It is located on the eastern shore of the island of Zealand, partly on the island of Amager and on a number of natural and artificial islets between the two. Copenhagen faces the Oresund to the east, the strait of water that separates Denmark from Sweden, and which connects the North Sea with the Baltic Sea. The Swedish towns of Malmo and Landskrona lie on the Swedish side of the sound directly across from Copenhagen.[53] By road, Copenhagen is 42 kilometres (26 ) northwest of Malmo, Sweden, 85 kilometres (53 ) northeast of N?stved, 164 kilometres (102 ) northeast of Odense, 295 kilometres (183 ) east of Esbjerg and 188 kilometres (117 ) southeast of Aarhus by sea and road via Sjaellands Odde.[54]
The city centre lies in the area originally defined by the old ramparts that are still referred to as the Fortification Ring (F?stningsringen) and kept as a partial green band around it.[55] Then come the late 19th and early 20th century residential neighbourhoods of Osterbro, Norrebro, Vesterbro and Amagerbro. The outlying areas of Kongens Enghave, Valby, Vigerslev, Vanlose, Bronshoj, Utterslev and Sundby followed from 1920 to 1960. They consist mainly of residential housing and apartments often enhanced with parks and greenery.[56]

The central area of the city consists of relatively low-lying flat ground formed by moraines from the last ice age while the hilly areas to the north and west frequently rise to 50 m (160 ft) above sea level. The slopes of Valby and Bronshoj reach heights of over 30 m (98 ft), divided by valleys running from the northeast to the southwest. Close to the centre are the Copenhagen lakes of Sortedams So, Peblinge So and Sankt Jorgens So.[56]
Copenhagen rests on a subsoil of flint-layered limestone deposited in the Danian period some 60 to 66 llion years ago. Some greensand from the Selandian is also present. There are a few faults in the area, the most important of which is the Carlsberg fault which runs northwest to southeast through the centre of the city.[57] During the last ice age, glaciers eroded the surface leaving a layer of moraines up to 15 m (49 ft) thick.[58]

Copenhagen and the surrounding areas have three beaches with a total of approx. 8 kilometres (5 les) of sandy shores within 30 nutes cycling from the city centre. These include Amager Strandpark, which opened in 2005 with a 2  (1 ) long artificial island and a total of 4.6  (2.9 ) of beaches, located just 15 nutes by bicycle or a few nutes by metro from the city centre.[59]
The beaches are supplemented by a system of Harbour Baths along the Copenhagen waterfront. The first and most popular of these is located at Islands Brygge and has won international acclaim for its design.[60]

Copenhagen is in the oceanic climate zone.[61] Its weather is subject to low-pressure systems from the Atlantic which result in unstable conditions throughout the year. The Gulf Stream brings warmer water across from the Gulf of Mexico causing average temperatures to be some 5 degrees higher than would be expected for the city's latitude of 55 degrees North. Apart from slightly higher rainfall from July to September, precipitation is moderate. While there can be snow from late December to early March, there can also be rain with average temperatures around the freezing point.[62]
June is the sunniest month of the year with an average of about eight hours of sunshine a day. July and August are warm too with daytime temperatures around 20 °C (68 °F) although rainfall averages 69 mm per month. By contrast, the average hours of sunshine are less than two per day in November and only one and a half per day from December to February. In the spring, it gets warmer again with from four to six hours of sunshine per day from March to May. February is the driest month of the year.[63] Exceptional weather conditions can bring as much as 50 cm of snow to Copenhagen in a 24 hour period during the winter months[64] while summer temperatures have been known to rise to heights of 33 °C (91 °F) (91°F).[65]
Because of Copenhagen's northern latitude, the number of daylight hours varies considerably between summer and winter. In d-summer, the sun rises at 4.26 am and sets at 9.58 pm, providing 17 hours 32 nutes of daylight. In d-winter, it rises at 8.37 am and sets at 15.39 pm with 7 hours and 1 nute of daylight. There is therefore a difference of 10 hours and 31 nutes in the length of days and nights between the summer and winter solstices .[66]

Copenhagen is recognized as one of the most environmentally friendly cities in the world.[85] The municipal policy is to reduce CO2 essions by 20% before the end of 2015.[86] In 2001 a large offshore wind farm was built just off the coast of Copenhagen at ddelgrunden. It produces about 4% of the city's energy.[87] Years of substantial investment in sewage treatment have improved water quality in the harbour to an extent that the inner harbour can be used for swimng with facilities at a number of locations.[88]
Copenhagen aims to be carbon-neutral by 2025. Commercial and residential buildings are to reduce electricity consumption by 20 percent and 10 percent respectively, and total heat consumption is to fall by 20 percent by 2025. Renewable energy features such as solar panels are becong increasingly common in the newest buildings in Copenhagen. District heating will be carbon-neutral by 2025. New buildings must now be constructed according to Low Energy Class ratings and in 2020 near net-zero energy buildings. By 2025, 75% of trips should be made on foot, by bike, or by using public transit. The city plans that 20-30% of cars will run on electricity or biofuel by 2025. The investment is estimated at $472 llion public funds and $4.78 billion private funds.[89]
The city's architectural planning authorities continue to take full account of these priorities. Special attention is given both to climate issues and efforts to ensure maximum application of low-energy standards. Priorities include recycling rainwater, green roofs and efficient waste management solutions. In city planning, streets and squares are to be designed to encourage cycling and walking rather than driving.[90]
As a result of its comtment to high environmental standards, Copenhagen has been praised for its green economy, becong the world's leading green city in the 2012 Global Green Economy Index.[91] It has also received the title of "European Green Capital 2014" as a result of its environmental record and its ambitious goals. Mention was made of the city's efforts to work with companies, universities and organisations in order to further green growth, the "Green Laboratory" component in its North Harbour project, and its efforts to increase the proportion of the population cycling to work to 50% by 2015.[92]

Depending on the boundaries used, the population of Copenhagen differs. Statistics Denmark has never specified the geographical area of urban Copenhagen, but it is known to consist of Copenhagen Municipality, Frederiksberg and 16 of the 20 municipalities in the old counties Copenhagen and Roskilde, though five of them only partially.[93] The urban area of Copenhagen has a population of 1,230,728 inhabitants as of 2013, with a total of 1,937,611 inhabitants in the overall metropolitan area as 2012; the latter is equivalent to the local traffic area and ticket fare zones, covering 3,030 square kilometres (1,170 square les).[94] Based on a 10%-isoline (data from 2002) in which at least 10% of the population commutes into central parts of the Copenhagen area, most of Zealand would be covered and this area has a population of about 2.3 llion inhabitants.[95]
Since the opening of the Oresund Bridge in 2000, commuting between Zealand and Scania in Sweden has increased rapidly, leading to a wider, integrated area. Known as the Oresund Region, it has 3.8 llion inhabitants (of which 2.5 llion live in the Danish part of the region).[96]

The majority of those living in Copenhagen are members of the Lutheran Church of Denmark, although the 61.6% specifically confirng their membership by paying church taxes is well below the national average of 79.1% according to 2013 figures.[97] There are also several other Christian communities in the city, of which the largest is Roman Catholic.[98] The second most significant religion practised in the city is Islam. While there are no official statistics, most of the estimated 150,000 Muslims in the country live in Copenhagen, with the highest concentration in Norrebro and the Vestegnen.[99] There are some 7,000 Jews in Denmark, most of them in the Copenhagen area where there are several synagogues.[100]

For a number of years, Copenhagen has ranked high in international surveys for its quality of life. Its stable economy together with its education services and level of social safety make it attractive for locals and visitors alike. Although it is one of the world's most expensive cities, it is also one of the most liveable with its public transport, facilities for cyclists and its environmental policies.[101] In elevating Copenhagen to "most liveable city" in 2013, Monocle pointed to its open spaces, increasing activity on the streets, city planning in favour of cyclists and pedestrians, and features to encourage inhabitants to enjoy city life with an emphasis on community, culture and cuisine.[102] Other sources have ranked Copenhagen high for its business environment, accessibility, restaurants and environmental planning.[103] For students, however, Copenhagen ranks only No. 39 for student friendliness in 2012. Despite a top score for quality of living, its scores were low for employer activity and affordability.[104]

Copenhagen is not only the econoc and financial centre of Denmark but is a major business centre for the entire Scandinavian-Baltic region. Statistics for 2010 show that of the 350,000 people working in Copenhagen, the vast majority are employed in the service sector, especially transport and communications, trade, and finance, while less than 10,000 work in the manufacturing industries. The public sector workforce is around 110,000, including education and healthcare.[105] From 2006 to 2011, the economy grew by 2.5% in Copenhagen and Copenhagen Municipality while it fell by some 4% in the rest of Denmark.[106]
In Dansk Industri's 2013 survey of employment factors in 96 Danish municipalities, Copenhagen came in first place for educational qualifications and for the development of private companies in recent years but fell to No. 86 in local companies' assessment of the employment climate. The survey revealed considerable dissatisfaction in the level of dialogue companies enjoyed with the municipal authorities.[107] In 2012, Copenhagen was third in the ranking of the richest cities in the world in terms of gross earnings, dropping from first place in 2009.[108] In the 2011 UBS survey of prices and earnings, Copenhagen had fallen to fifth place for price levels while it held third place in gross wage levels and was said to have the highest purchasing power in terms of gross hourly wages although it was only in 12th place in terms of domestic purchasing power.[109]
Copenhagen is home to a number of international companies including A.P. Moller-M?rsk, Novo Nordisk, Carlsberg and Novozymes.[110] The city also has successful business clusters in several innovative sectors including information technology, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and clean technology.[111]
Tourism is also an increasingly important sector for Copenhagen's economy, reaching record numbers in 2012 for the third year in succession. The number of room nights reached 8.1 llion, up 25% since 2008. Between 2011 and 2012, room nights increased 9.2% overall, tallying a rise of 39% for Chinese visitors. The numbers of airline and cruise passengers visiting the city were also at new highs while turnover for congress tourism reached DKK 1.2 billion with a total of 57 congresses in the year. [112]
Copenhagen has a service oriented economy. Life science is a key sector with extensive research and development activities. In collaboration with Sweden, Medicon Valley is being developed as a central sector of interest across the entire Oresund Region. Major Danish biotech companies like Novo Nordisk and Lundbeck, both of which are among the 50 largest pharmaceutical and biotech companies in the world, are located in the greater Copenhagen area.[113] Shipping is also an import sector with Maersk, the world's largest shipping company, having their world headquarters in Copenhagen.
Copenhagen has some of the highest gross wages in the world.[114] High taxes mean that wages are reduced after mandatory deduction. A beneficial researcher scheme with low taxation of foreign specialists has made Denmark an attractive location for foreign labour. It is however also among the most expensive cities in Europe.[115][116]

Copenhagen is rich in companies and institutions with a focus on research and development within the biotechnology and life science sectors.[117] Two of the 50 largest pharmaceutical and biotech companies in the world are located in the greater Copenhagen area. The biotechnology and life science cluster in Copenhagen and the rest of the Oresund Region is one of the strongest in Europe. Known as Medicon Valley, it is a collaborative venture supported by both Denmark and Sweden. The aim is to strengthen the region's position and to promote cooperation between companies and acadea. Hundreds of companies have been established in the area, the majority on the Danish side of the sound.[118][119]

As of 2013, Copenhagen has 13 chelin star restaurants, the most of any Scandinavian city.[207] The city is increasingly recognized internationally as a gourmet destination.[208] These include Den Rode Cottage, Formel B Restaurant, Gronbech Churchill, Sollerod Kro, Kadeau, Kiin Kiin (Denmark's first chelin-starred Asian gourmet restaurant), the French restaurant Kong Hans K?lder, Rel?, Restaurant AOC, and, each with two chelin stars, Geranium and Noma (short for Danish: nordisk mad, English: Nordic food). Noma, was ranked as the Best Restaurant in the World by Restaurant in 2010, 2011 and 2012, sparking interest in the New Nordic Cuisine.[209]
Apart from the selection of upmarket restaurants, Copenhagen offers a great variety of Danish, ethnic and experimental restaurants. It is possible to find modest eateries serving open sandwiches, known as smorrebrod – a traditional, Danish lunch dish; however, most restaurants serve international dishes.[210] Danish pastry can be sampled from any of numerous bakeries found in all parts of the city. The Copenhagen Baker's Association dates back to the 1290s and Denmark's oldest confectioner's shop still operating, Conditori La Glace, was founded in 1870 in Skoubogade by Nicolaus Henningsen, a trained master baker from Flensburg.[211]
Copenhagen has long been associated with beer. Carlsberg beer has been brewed at the brewery's preses on the border between the Vesterbro and Valby districts since 1847 and has long been almost synonymous with Danish beer production. However, recent years have seen an explosive growth in the number of crobreweries so that Denmark today has more than 100 breweries, many of which are located in Copenhagen. Some like Norrebro Bryghus also act as brewpubs where it is also possible to eat on the preses.[212][213]

Copenhagen has one of the highest number of restaurants and bars per capita in the world. The nightclubs stay open until 5 or 6 in the morning, some even longer. Denmark has a very liberal alcohol culture and a strong tradition for beer breweries, although binge drinking is frowned upon and the Danish Police take driving under the influence very seriously.[214] Inner city areas such as Istedgade and Enghave Plads in Vesterbro, Sankt Hans Torv in Norrebro and certain places in Frederiksberg are vibrant and full of life even during the late hours. Notable nightclubs include Bakken Kbh, HIVE, Jolene, The Jane on Grabrodre Square, Karriere Bar, KB3, Rust, Vega Nighclub, Culture Box and Gefahrlich, which also serves as a bar, cafe, restaurant, and art gallery.[215]
Copenhagen has several recurring community festivals, mainly in the summer. Copenhagen Carnival has taken place every year since 1982 during the Whitsun Holiday in F?lledparken and around the city with the participation of 120 bands, 2,000 dancers and 100,000 spectators.[216] Copenhagen Pride is a gay pride festival taking place every year in August. Among the events is "Tivoli goes pink" which ends with a parade. Copenhagen Distortion is a youth culture festival capturing the zeitgeist of the city. Every year (five days up to the first weekend of June) it attracts up to 100,000 people in the streets, shops, galleries, clubs, bars, in boats and buses, with a cultural focus on street culture, art and upfront dance music.[217]

Copenhagen has over 94,000 students enrolled in its largest universities and institutions: University of Copenhagen (38,867 students),[223] Copenhagen Business School (19,999 students),[224] Metropolitan University College and University College Capital (10,000 students each),[225] Technical University of Denmark (7,000 students),[226] KEA (c. 4,500 students),[227] IT University of Copenhagen (2,000 students.) and Aalborg University – Copenhagen (2,300 students).[228]
Copenhagen's higher-education system relies on public universities. Most pronent among these is the University of Copenhagen. Founded in 1479, it is the oldest university in Denmark. A world-renowned research and teaching institution with campuses around the city, it forms part of the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU), which encourages international collaboration between top universities including Oxford, Cambridge, Yale, Berkeley and The Australian National University. The University attracts some 1,500 international and exchange students every year. It has repeatedly been ranked as one of the best universities in Europe.[229]


Copenhagen Business School
The Technical University of Denmark (DTU), Danmarks Tekniske Universitet, is located in Lyngby in the northern outskirts of Copenhagen. In 2013, it was ranked as one of the leading technical universities in Northern Europe.[230] The IT University of Copenhagen is Denmark's youngest university, a mono-faculty institution focusing on technical, societal and business aspects of information technology.[231]
The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts (Det Kongelige Danske Kunstakade) has provided a practice-oriented complement to the scholarly investigation of the arts carried out at Danish universities for more than 250 years. It includes the historical School of Visual Arts, and has in later years come to include a School of Architecture, a School of Design and a School of Conservation.[232] Copenhagen Business School (CBS) is an EQUIS-accredited business school located in Frederiksberg.[233] There are also branches of both University College Capital and Metropolitan University College inside and outside Copenhagen.[234][235]

Copenhagen is home to a great number of fitness and health clubs owned by a number of chains including "Fitness World" and "Fitness dk".[236] They are popular with all age groups. In the summer, bikers, runners and strollers can be seen on the paths around the city's five rectangular lakes which total a distance of 6.4  (4 ). The municipal authorities encourage people to use bicycles as their primary form of transportation when moving around the city.[237]
The city has a variety of sporting teams. The major football teams are the historically successful FC Kobenhavn[238] and Brondby. FC Kobenhavn plays at Parken in Osterbro. Formed in 1992, it is a merger of two older Copenhagen clubs, B 1903 (from the inner suburb Gentofte) and KB (from Frederiksberg).[239] Brondby plays at Brondby Stadion in the inner suburb of Brondbyvester. BK Frem is based in the southern part of Copenhagen (Sydhavnen, Valby). Other teams are FC Nordsj?lland (from suburban Farum), Fremad Amager, B93, AB, Frem, Lyngby and Hvidovre IF.[240]
Copenhagen has several handball teams—a sport which is particularly popular in Denmark. Of clubs playing in the "highest" leagues, there are Ajax, Ydun, and HIK (Hellerup).[240] The Kobenhavn Handbold women's club has recently been established.[241] Copenhagen also has ice hockey teams, of which three play in the top league, Rodovre ghty Bulls, Herlev Eagles and Hvidovre Ligahockey all inner suburban clubs. Copenhagen Ice Skating Club founded in 1869 is the oldest ice hockey team in Denmark but is no longer in the top league.[242]
Rugby union is also played in the Danish capital with teams such as CSR-Nanok, Copenhagen Business School Sport Rugby, Frederiksberg RK and Rugbyklubben Speed. Rugby League is now played in Copenhagen, with the national team playing out of Gentofte Stadion. The Danish Australian Football League, based in Copenhagen is the largest Australian rules football competition outside of the English speaking world.[240][243]
Copenhagen Marathon, Copenhagen's annual marathon event, was established in 1980.[244] Round Christiansborg Open Water Swim Race is a 2  (1.2 ) open water swimng competition taking place each year in late August.[245] This amateur event is combined with a 10  (6 ) Danish championship.[246] In 2009 the event included a 10  (6 ) FINA World Cup competition in the morning. Copenhagen hosted the 2011 UCI Road World Championships in September 2011, taking advantage of its bicycle-friendly infrastructure. It was the first time that Denmark had hosted the event since 1956, when it was also held in Copenhagen.


</doc>
</xml>

