<xml>
<doc title='013.txt'>
The Grothendieck constant is strictly smaller than Krivine’s bound .
The minimum k-way cut of bounded size is fixed-parameter tractable .
Randomness buys depth for approximate counting .
Local Distributed Decision .
A Small PRG for Polynomial Threshold Functions of Gaussians .
Evolution with Recombination .
Extractors for circuit sources .
The Second-Belief Mechanism. .
New extension of the Weil bound for character sums with applications to coding .
 A Two Prover One Round Game with Strong Soundness.
 Optimal testing of multivariate polynomials over small prime fields .
 Fully dynamic maximal matching in O(log n) update time .
 Optimal bounds for quantum bit commitment .
 SHARP MIXING TIME BOUNDS FOR SAMPLING RANDOM SURFACES.
 Solving connectivity problems parameterized by treewidth in single exponential time .
 How to Play Unique Games Against a Semi-Random Adversary .
 Near-Optimal Column-Based Matrix Reconstruction .
 Tight lower bounds for 2-query LCCs over finite fields .
 Separator Theorems for Minor-Free and Shallow Minor-Free Graphs with Applications .
 3-SAT Faster and Simpler – Unique-SAT Bounds for PPSZ Hold in General .
 On Range Searching in the Group Model and Combinatorial Discrepancy .
 Coin Flipping with Constant Bias Implies One-Way Functions.
 The Complexity of the Homotopy Method, Equilibrium Selection, and Lemke- Howson Solutions. .
 Information Equals Amortized Communication .
 Graph Connectivities, Network Coding, and Expander Graphs.
 Limitations of Randomized Mechanisms for Combinatorial Auctions.
 How to Store a Secret on Continually Leaky Devices .
 A Polylogarithmic-Competitive Algorithm for the k-Server Problem.
 Minimum Weight Cycles and Triangles: Equivalences and Algorithms .
 Streaming Algorithms via Precision Sampling .
 A Parallel Approximation Algorithm for Positive Semidefinite Programming .
 Planar Graphs: Random Walks and Bipartiteness Testing.
 Pseudorandomness for read-once formulas.
 Approximating Graphic TSP by Matchings .
 Efficient Distributed Medium Access .
 Near Linear Lower Bound for Dimension Reduction in L1 .
 Maximum Edge-Disjoint Paths in Planar Graphs with Congestion 2.
 Min-Max Graph Partitioning and Small-Set Expansion.
 An FPTAS for #Knapsack and Related Counting Problems.
 Improved Mixing Condition on the Grid for Counting and Sampling Independent Sets .
 Balls and Bins: Smaller Hash Families and Faster Evaluation .
 Multiple-Source Multiple-Sink Maximum Flow in Directed Planar Graphs in Near-Linear Time .
 Quantum query complexity of state conversion.
 A constant factor approximation algorithm for unsplittable flow on paths .
 The Graph Minor Algorithm with Parity Conditions.
 Mutual Exclusion with O(log2 log n) Amortized Work.
 How Bad is Forming Your Own Opinion? .
 The Complexity of Renaming [HTML].
 On the Power of Adaptivity in Sparse Recovery.
 Enumerative Lattice Algorithms in any Norm via M-ellipsoid Coverings .
 Efficient and Explicit Coding for Interactive Communication.
 Dispersers for affine sources with sub-polynomial entropy.
 Approximation Algorithms for Correlated Knaspacks and Non-Martingale Bandits .
 Lasserre Hierarchy, Higher Eigenvalues, and Approximation Schemes for Graph Partitioning and Quadratic Integer Programming with PSD Objectives .
 A Unified Continuous Greedy Algorithm for Submodular Maximization.
 Bayesian Combinatorial Auctions: Expanding Single Buyer Mechanisms to Many Buyers .
  Extreme-Value Theorems for Optimal Multidimensional Pricing .
  Approximation Algorithms for Submodular Multiway Partition .
 Delays and the Capacity of Continuous-time Channels .
 Fully Homomorphic Encryption without Squashing Using Depth-3 Arithmetic Circuits .
 A Randomized Rounding Approach to the Traveling Salesman Problem .
  Algorithms for the Generalized Sorting Problem.
 Privacy Amplification and Non-Malleable Extractors Via Character Sums .
 A nearly mlogn time solver for SDD linear systems.
 Which Networks Are Least Susceptible to Cascading Failures? .
 Online Node-weighted Steiner Tree and Related Problems.
 Welfare and Profit Maximization with Production Costs.
 On the complexity of Commuting Local Hamiltonians, and tight conditions for Topological Order in such systems .
 Efficient Fully Homomorphic Encryption from (Standard) LWE .
 Testing and Reconstruction of Lipschitz Functions with Applications to Data Privacy .
 Lexicographic Products and the Power of Non-Linear Network Coding.
 Efficient computation of approximate pure Nash equilibria in congestion games .
  How to Garble Arithmetic Circuits.
 Rounding Semidefinite Programming Hierarchies via Global Correlation .
 Efficient Reconstruction of Random Multilinear Formulas.
 Markov Layout.
 (1+eps)-Approximate Sparse Recovery.
 Quadratic Goldreich-Levin Theorems .
 Maximizing Expected Utility for Stochastic Combinatorial Optimization Problems .
 Stateless Cryptographic Protocols.
 Steiner Shallow-Light Trees are Exponentially Lighter than Spanning Ones.
 An algebraic proof of a robust social choice impossibility theorem.
 The Power of Linear Estimators .
 The Randomness Complexity of Parallel Repetition.
 The Complexity of Quantum States – a combinatorial approach.
 Tight Bounds for Randomized Load Balancing on Arbitrary Network Topologies.
Population Recovery and Partial Identification.
A direct product theorem for the two-party bounded-round public-coin communication complexity.
Positive Results for Concurrently Secure Computation in the Plain Model.
Constructive Discrepancy Minimization by Walking on The Edges.
Making the Long Code Shorter.
On the homotopy test on surfaces.
Constructing a Pseudorandom Generator Requires an Almost Linear Number of Calls.
Partially Symmetric Functions are Efficiently Isomorphism-Testable.
The computational hardness of counting in two-spin models on d-regular graphs.
A PTAS for Computing the Supremum of Gaussian Processes	.
The tile assembly model is intrinsically universal.
Hardness of Finding Independent Sets in Almost q-Colorable Graphs.
The Privacy of the Analyst and The Power of the State.
Higher Cell Probe Lower Bounds for Evaluating Polynomials.
Faster Algorithms for Rectangular Matrix Multiplication	.
A Polylogarithimic Approximation Algorithm for Edge-Disjoint Paths with Congestion 2.
Iterative rounding approximation algorithms for degree-bounded node-connectivity network design	.
Pseudorandomness from Shrinkage	.
An additive combinatorics approach relating rank to communication complexity.
Designing FPT algorithms for cut problems using randomized contractions	.
Sparse affine-invariant linear codes are locally testable.
A Structure Theorem for Poorly Anticoncentrated Gaussian Chaoses and Applications to the Study of Polynomial Threshold Functions.
How to Construct Quantum Random Functions.
A weight-scaling algorithm for min-cost imperfect matchings in bipartite graphs	.
Matching with our Eyes Closed	.
A New Infinity of Distance Oracles for Sparse Graphs.
A Permanent Approach to the Traveling Salesman Problem.
Everywhere-Sparse Spanners via Dense Subgraphs.
Learning-graph-based Quantum Algorithm for k-distinctness.
Beck's three permutations conjecture: A counterexample and some consequences.
Down the Rabbit Hole: Robust Proximity Search and Density Estimation in Sublinear Space	.
On the complexity of finding narrow proofs.
Improved Distance Sensitivity Oracles via Fast Single-Source Replacement Paths.
LP Rounding for k-Centers with Non-uniform Hard Capacities.
A Tight Combinatorial Algorithm for Submodular Maximization Subject to a Matroid Constraint.
Faster SDP hierarchy solvers for local rounding algorithms.
Combinatorial coloring of 3-colorable graphs.
Approximation Limits of Linear Programs (Beyond Hierarchies).
A Tight Linear Time (1/2)-Approximation for Unconstrained Submodular Maximization.
Lower bounds on Information Complexity via zero-communication protocols and applications.
Better Pseudorandom Generators from Milder Pseudorandom Restrictions.
Almost Optimal Canonical Property Testers for Satisfiability.
On Range Searching with Semialgebraic Sets II.
MIP* contains NEXP.
Geometric Complexity Theory V: Equivalence between blackbox derandomization of polynomial identity testing and derandomization of Noether's normalization lemma.
Single Source - All Sinks Max Flows in Planar Digraphs .
The Johnson-Lindenstrauss Transform Itself Preserves Differential Privacy   .
Formulas Resilient to Short-Circuit Errors.
Efficient Interactive Coding Against Adversarial Noise.
How to Allocate Tasks Asynchronously.
New Limits to Classical and Quantum Instance Compression.
Large Deviation Bounds for Decision Trees and Sampling Lower Bounds for AC0-circuits.
The Locality of Distributed Symmetry Breaking.
Representative sets and irrelevant vertices: New tools for kernelization.
Approximating the Expansion Profile and Almost Optimal Local Graph Clustering.
Algorithmic Applications of Baur-Strassen's Theorem: Shortest Cycles, Diameter and Matchings.
Learning Topic Models --- Going beyond SVD	  .
Non-Malleable Extractors, Two-Source Extractors and Privacy Amplification.
The power of linear programming for valued CSPs	.
Constructing Non-Malleable Commitments: A Black-Box Approach.
Active Property Testing.
The Dynamics of Influence Systems .
Online Matching with Stochastic Rewards	.
Finding Correlations in Subquadratic Time, with Applications to Learning Parities and Juntas.
The Exponential Mechanism for Social Welfare: Private, Truthful, and Nearly Optimal.
How to Compute in the Presence of Leakage.
On-line Indexing for General Alphabets.
Optimal Multi-Dimensional Mechanism Design: Reducing Revenue to Welfare Maximization.
Split and Join: Strong Partitions and Universal Steiner Trees for Graphs.
From the Impossibility of Obfuscation to a New Non-Black-Box Simulation Technique  .
Quasi-optimal multiplication of linear differential operators.
Randomized Greedy Algorithms for the Maximum Matching Problem with New Analysis	.
Concave Generalized Flows with Applications to Market Equilibria.
The Cutting Plane Method is Polynomial for Perfect Matchings.
Computing Multiplicities of Lie Group Representations.
A New Direction for Counting Perfect Matchings.
Planar F-Deletion: Approximation, Kernelization and Optimal FPT Algorithms.
Lower Bounds for Interactive Compression by Constant-Depth Circuits.
OSNAP: Faster numerical linear algebra algorithms via sparser subspace embeddings.
A Polynomial Time Algorithm for Lossy Population Recovery.
Direct products in communication complexity.
Arithmetic circuits: A chasm at depth three.
Approximating Minimum-Cost k-Node Connected Subgraphs via Independence-Free Graphs.
The Parity of Directed Hamiltonian Cycles.
Approximating Minimization Diagrams and Generalized Proximity Search.
Quantum 3-SAT is QMA1-complete.
The Price of Stability for Undirected Broadcast Network Design with Fair Cost Allocation is Constant.
Strong LTCs with inverse poly-log rate and constant soundness.
All-or-nothing multicommodity flow problem with bounded fractionality in planar graphs.
Approximating Bin Packing within O(log OPT * log log OPT) bins.
Common information and unique disjointness.
Chasing the k-colorability threshold.
Three-player entangled XOR games are NP-hard to approximate.
Fully Dynamic $(1+\epsilon)$-Approximate Matchings.
Estimating the distance from testable affine-invariant properties.
Approximation algorithms for Euler genus and related problems.
Polar Codes: Speed of polarization and polynomial gap to capacity.
An Optimal Randomized Online Algorithm for Reordering Buffer Management.
Approximation Schemes for Maximum Weight Independent Set of Rectangles.
Playing Non-linear Games with Linear Oracles.
Faster Canonical Forms for Strongly Regular Graphs.
Constant rate PCPs for circuit-SAT with sublinear query complexity.
How to Approximate A Set Without Knowing Its Size In Advance.
Quasipolynomial-time Identity Testing of Non-Commutative and Read-Once Oblivious Algebraic Branching Programs.
On Kinetic Delaunay Triangulations: A Near Quadratic Bound for Unit Speed Motions.
Element Distinctness, Frequency Moments, and Sliding Windows.
Spatial mixing and approximation algorithms for graphs with bounded connective constant.
Algebraic Algorithms for b-Matching, Shortest Undirected Paths, and f-Factors.
A linear time approximation scheme for Euclidean TSP.
Interactive Coding, Revisited.
Improved approximation for 3-dimensional matching via bounded pathwidth local search.
Strong Backdoors to Bounded Treewidth SAT.
Explicit Subspace Designs.
Dynamic Approximate All-Pairs Shortest Paths: Breaking the $ \tilde O(mn) $ Barrier and Derandomization.
On Randomized Memoryless Algorithms for the Weighted $k$-server Problem.
Constant-Round Concurrent Zero Knowledge From P-Certificates.
Learning Sums of Independent Integer Random Variables.
Independent Set, Induced Matching, and Pricing: Connections and Tight (Subexponential Time) Approximation Hardnesses.
Online Node-weighted Steiner Forest and Extensions via Disk Paintings.
Klee’s Measure Problem Made Easy.
Extractors for a Constant Number of Independent Sources with Polylogarithmic Min-Entropy.
Navigating Central Path with Electrical Flows: from Flows to Matchings, and Back.
Fourier sparsity, spectral norm, and the Log-rank conjecture.
Layered Separators for Queue Layouts, 3D Graph Drawing and Nonrepetitive Coloring.
Average Case Lower Bounds for Monotone Switching Networks.
PCPs via low-degree long code and hardness for constrained hypergraph coloring.
The planar directed k-Vertex-Disjoint Paths problem is fixed-parameter tractable.
On the communication complexity of sparse set disjointness and exists-equal problems.
The Simple Economics of Approximately Optimal Auctions.
Efficient Accelerated Coordinate Descent Methods and Faster Algorithms for Solving Linear Systems.
Nearly Maximum Flows in Nearly Linear Time.
Improved Average-Case Lower Bounds for DeMorgan Formula Size.
Optimal Bounds on Approximation of Submodular and XOS Functions by Juntas.
Towards a better approximation for Sparsest Cut?.
Bandits with Knapsacks.
Approximate Constraint Satisfaction Requires Large LP Relaxations.
Simple Tabulation, Fast Expanders, Double Tabulation, and High Independence.
An LMP O(log n)-Approximation Algorithm for Node Weighted Prize Collecting Steiner Tree.
A Satisfiability Algorithm for Sparse Depth Two Threshold Circuits.
The Complexity of Approximating Vertex Expansion.
Tight Bounds for Set Disjointness in the Message Passing Model.
Interlacing Families I: Bipartite Ramanujan Graphs of All Degrees.
Candidate Indistinguishability Obfuscation and Functional Encryption for all circuits.
Iterative Row Sampling.
Simultaneous Resettability from One-Way Functions.
Rational Protocol Design: Cryptography Against Incentive-driven Adversaries.
Non-positive curvature, and the planar embedding conjecture.
Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates.
The Moser-Tardos Framework with Partial Resampling.
On Clustering Induced Voronoi Diagrams.
A forward-backward single-source shortest paths algorithm.
An O(c^k) n 5-Approximation Algorithm for Treewidth.
Understanding Incentives: Mechanism Design becomes Algorithm Design.
Nondeterministic Direct Product Reductions and the Success Probability of SAT Solvers.
From Unprovability to Environementally Friendly Protocols.
Adaptive Seeding in Social Networks.
Coupled-Worlds Privacy: Exploiting Adversarial Uncertainty in Statistical Data Privacy.

</doc>
</xml>
