<xml><doc id="12" url="http://wikitravel.org/en/Portland_(Oregon)" title="Portland">
Portland, "The City of Roses", is the largest city in Oregon and the third largest city in the Pacific Northwest after Seattle and Vancouver, British Columbia. It lies about 70 mi (124 km) from the Pacific Coast on the northern border of the state of Oregon, straddling the Willamette (pronounced will-AM-et) River 12 mi (19 km) south of its confluence with the Columbia River. Vancouver, Washington (not to be confused with Vancouver, Canada) is a Portland suburb and lies immediately on the other side of the Columbia River. About 50 mi (80 km) to the east lies majestic Mount Hood, which forms the perfect backdrop for Portland's skyline. The city is noted for its scenic beauty, great outdoors environment, a large number of microbreweries, and its eco-friendly urban planning policies.

Portland is the largest city lying between San Francisco and Seattle and when compared to those cities, Portland's environment is not as fast-paced; instead it has a more laid-back, smaller town feel to it. Portland, however, is still a city just shy of 600,000 people, and as such has its fair share of amenities, including an impressive music and arts scene and one of the largest collections of zine and independent publishers of any city in the nation. The city hasn't yet developed to the point of being overwhelming. That said, in recent years Portland's growth has started to catch up with daily living, such as having some of the worst traffic congestion in the West, a high cost of living relative to wages, and chronic underemployment.
The city has a lovely blend of historic and modern architecture and many lush parks to poke your toes into; Forest Park and Washington Park in the hills west of Downtown offer a variety of plants, trails, and wildlife near the city. Vistas of Mt. Hood and the Willamette River, stately Douglas Fir trees, and roses and trees at every turn give the city stunning seasonal color. Environmentally friendly practices, such as recycling and an extensive public transportation system, are part of the culture here and fuel many progressive city planning practices, such as an urban growth boundary, which have made Portland a relatively compact city. Unlike most similar-sized metropolitan areas in the country, you can drive 15 mi (24 km) from downtown and be out in the countryside.

The first European contact in the area came from none other than Lewis and Clark, who sailed along the Columbia River just north of where Portland lies today in 1805; after a year of exploration they finally reached the Pacific Ocean just to the west. The reports from their expedition fueled interest in the area, and settlers came to stake their claim. Two of those settlers were William Overton and his friend Asa Lovejoy, a lawyer from Boston, who came across the spot where Portland now sits and jointly began to build a settlement. Later, Overton sold his share to F. W. Pettygrove, a man from Portland, Maine. As of this point, the area was being transformed from a small stopping point between Oregon City and Vancouver, WA to a formal settlement, and the owners now needed to give it a name. Both Lovejoy and Pettygrove wanted to name the new town after their respective hometowns; so in 1845 they decided to leave it up to a coin toss and Pettygrove won two times out of three.
In 1851, Portland was formally incorporated and was growing rapidly; its proximity to the rivers, which funneled a trade with San Francisco to the south, combined by the local fishing, lumber, and agriculture industries fueled Portland's early growth. The railroad arrived in the 1880s, and for a time Portland was the largest city on the west coast north of San Francisco; however the Klondike Gold Rush and the arrival of the railroad to Washington state meant Seattle quickly eclipsed Portland's growth.
Portland persisted as a booming railroad, lumber and steel town for several decades. During the 1970s, however, Portland began to gain a reputation for progressive urban planning practices, adopting policies such as an urban growth boundary and constructing new parks in a push to maintain the central neighborhoods as active places in light of suburban development. Through the 70s and into the 80s, Portland became a center for "counter-culture," growing into a hub for punk and indie rock music, zine publishing, and activist movements. The dot-com boom of the 90s brought an influx of modern tech companies along with the so-called "creative class", who remained even after the economic bubble burst. By this point, the city's progressive policies and politics had won the city a special status among urban designers, environmentalists, and political activists as a very forward-thinking city, which has only fueled further growth and development of the metropolitan area.

As in other places in the Pacific Northwest, there is abundant rainfall in the fall, winter, and spring. The rain is often a menacing drizzle or mist, meaning you'll often be wet; total precipitation in Seattle and Portland is technically less than many east coast and southeastern cities because there are fewer downpours, instead the rain opts for a near constant drizzle. A sunny day in the rainy season can seem to be very rare, and Portlanders have the unusual habit of wearing shorts and flip-flops the minute the sun comes out, even if the temperature is barely above freezing. Portland has very little snow, instead the winters are very rainy. Bring or buy an umbrella if you're in Portland between October and June. There is a myth that a large portion of "Portlanders" don't use, or even believe in, umbrellas, instead preferring hoods and raincoats.
It's worth mentioning that there are really only two seasons in the Portland area - rain and summer. The rain and clouds typically last 9 months, from late September often until late June, then suddenly the clouds clear and it is hot and sunny. There is not really a gradual increase in temperatures, it's basically either 48°F (9°C) degrees and raining, or 85°F (29°C) and sunny. Prospective visitors who don't care for rain should be aware that Portland summers, although short, are quite pleasant - July through September have only a 10% chance of rain on any given day, temperatures rarely exceed 85°F (29°C) degrees or so, and local produce (including fresh sweet cherries and some of the world's best berries) is available at farmers' markets and fruit stands in and around the city. July and August are typically the hottest months, temperatures occasionally hit 100°F (38°C) or more.

Portland is an easy city to bike, walk or use public transport. However there are topographical features that affect how streets and roads flow, so planning and maps are important for any journey of more than a few blocks. The verdant West Hills slope up from downtown and divide it from the suburbs of Beaverton, Hillsboro and others.
Much of Portland is a grid, and fairly easy to navigate. Portland is divided into five sectors, sometimes referred to oxymoronically as the "five quadrants". These quadrants are roughly divided by Burnside Street between north/south and the Willamette River between east/west, with a fifth sector (North) between the Willamette River and Williams Avenue. If you hear Portlanders talking about Southwest or Northeast, they're probably talking about a sector of the town rather than Arizona or Massachusetts.
SW - South of Burnside and west of the Willamette River, this sector includes the downtown core.
SE - South of Burnside and east of the Willamette River.
NE - North of Burnside and east of Williams Avenue.
N - North of Burnside, east of the Willamette River and west of Williams Avenue.
NW - North of Burnside and west of the Willamette River, this sector is immediately north of downtown and includes the Pearl District, Old Town, and the Northwest district.
All Portland addresses contain their designating sector inserted between house number and street name (i.e. 3719 SE Hawthorne Blvd.) The house address numbers increase 100 per block starting from Burnside Street or the Willamette River. This should make it easier to figure out where things are. In general, East/West streets are named while North/South avenues are numbered. An exception is North Portland where North/South avenues are also named. On the West side, some streets and arterial roads follow a North/South grid, others follow the topography and curve a great deal. There are major arterials that cross town in NE/SW or NW/SE orientation including Sandy Boulevard, and Foster Road on the East side, and Barbur Blvd on the SW. The streets of inner Northwest Portland are arranged alphabetically starting with Burnside, followed by Couch, then Davis, etc. through NW Vaughn Street making directions easy to follow here.
Driving around downtown is not recommended: inconvenient, expensive and hard-to-find parking combined with active parking meter enforcement (8AM-7PM) and non-intuitive street closures, transit malls and restrictions make it frustrating--even for locals. Most people can walk from one end of downtown to the other in 15 min—-faster than driving at times.
Be aware that most of the the city (and everything near downtown) is along the northerly flowing Willamette River, and not the much larger Columbia which flows west. However, the airport and Portland's northern neighbor, Vancouver, Washington is next to the Columbia. If you confuse the two rivers, you can easily mix up your bearings. As the Willamette River can be hard to spot on a map of Oregon, many newcomers mistakenly think Portland is along the nearby Columbia.

Portland has many unique and interesting neighborhoods to explore; these are but just the most notable ones:
Downtown Portland is the heart of the city, centered around Pioneer Square and home to modern commercial towers, new condominiums, and converted lofts, along with several museums and urban parks of interest to tourists, including Tom McCall Waterfront Park along the river. To the immediate south of Downtown is the campus of Portland State University and South Waterfront, an urban revitalization area at the southern end of the streetcar line with newly built glass residential towers.
Just to the north of Downtown is Old Town, which is where Portland was first settled and which has some historic buildings and is a nightlife center, but also contains a fair amount of social services for homeless and mentally ill. The neighborhood also holds the remnants of Chinatown which, despite a lovely archway entry at Burnside and 4th Avenue and some Chinese-inspired street decorations, is rather desolate and may prove a disappointment for visitors expecting the bustle of San Francisco's or New York City's Chinatown.
Just to the northwest of Downtown is the Pearl District, a very hip and trendy neighborhood on the streetcar line which was not long ago derelict warehouses and empty industrial space. The economic success of the Pearl has made it a frequently cited urban planning model, and it is an excellent place to hang out and people watch, eat in fine restaurants, and visit the famous Powell's Bookstore. Perhaps the best spot to people watch is Jamison Square, a city park at the heart of the Pearl that includes a popular fountain which fills a pool during the summer months that's popular with little kids. For a slightly more quiet retreat, Tanner Springs Park is just a couple of blocks north and built to resemble a piece of reclaimed wetland, with tall grasses and a nice pond. On the First Thursday of every month, all art galleries in the Pearl district open their doors for casual viewing, and many serve wine and cheese.
To the north of the Pearl, at the northern end of the streetcar line is the Northwest District, also known as Nob Hill and also on the trendy side and with a variety of retail shops, bars, and restaurants along with plenty of lovely Victorians and tree-lined streets. West of this is the West Hills, where the well-to-do of Portland have traditionally lived. Because of the geography, the streets in the West Hills are a bit of a maze, but they still make for an interesting trek; you'll find lavish mansions, ornate public staircases, and good views of Downtown.
Hawthorne Blvd, which runs east-west across the river from Downtown, has a broad selection of shops including a branch of Powell's Bookstore and the ornate Bagdad Theater Pub, and is a center of the counter-culture/bohemian community which is dissipating to make way for a variety of upscale businesses.


Hollywood Theater
Located along Sandy Blvd northeast of downtown, Hollywood is a commercial district for the nearby neighborhoods and home to the Hollywood Theater, an ornate theater which shows a lot of independent films. There is also a popular Saturday farmers market during the warm months.
To the north of downtown between MLK Blvd and 30th Avenue, Alberta Street has much the same feel as Hawthorne Blvd; a counter-culture/bohemian community that's becoming popular with yuppies. Alberta is home to Last Thursday, said by many locals to be the alternative to First Thursday in the Pearl District and also featuring wine tasting and gallery openings, along with street vending and performance artists.


Big city excitement and small town charm make Portland, known as "the City of Roses," a favorite destination. Portland, situated approximately 70 miles from the Pacific Ocean where the Columbia River meets the Willamette River, has a magnificent setting, combining sparkling waterways with lush greenery rarely found in urban settings. Portland's historic old town, many galleries and museums, Saturday Market, Waterfront Park, and theater companies will keep you busy for weeks! Also, Portland is just a short distance from the spectacular Columbia Gorge and Multnomah Falls, windsurfing at Hood River, touring at valley wineries, skiing at Mt. Hood, fish watching at Bonneville Dam, and all of the excitement of the Oregon coast.
Portland is known for its extensive park system of more than 200 parks. These encompass such areas as the elm shaded South Park Blocks in the downtown area, Washington Park, home of the Rose Test Gardens, and biggest park, Forest Park, which is the largest park within a city in the U.S. From the over 4,600 acre Forest Park to tiny 24 inch Mills End Park, Portland's park system offers leisure and recreation opportunities for everyone.

Portland's award winning mass transit system is one of the most extensive and advanced in the United States. The transit system includes buses, streetcars, five light rail lines, and a commuter rail service.

Short blocks make Portland a walker's paradise. The public art and old fashioned statuary, along with many fountains, bridges and parks offer opportunities for leisure and contemplation for the casual stroller. For the more adventuresome walker, Forest Park has approximately 50 miles of trails.

Nightlife adventures in Portland are excellent and varied. On top of the list is the internationally-known Oregon Symphony. Portland also has many local pubs and brew houses that feature jazz and blues. Be sure to visit the various comedy clubs and try the art gallery walks in the Pearl District. The performing arts in the area offer ballet, Shakespeare, Broadway musicals, modern dance and much more.

For sports fans, Portland is the home of the Trail Blazers professional basketball team, the Timbers major league soccer club, the Winterhawks junior ice hockey team, and the Hillsboro Hops minor league baseball team.

Stroll along Tom McCall Waterfront Park, with its lawns, outdoor cafes, river walks and marinas. Enjoy the dancing waters of the Salmon Street Springs fountain, then walk a little farther to gaze at magnificent, snow-capped Mt. Hood. Take the kids to OMSI, the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, for an exciting visit at a state of the art science center, including the giant screen Omnimax theater, the laser art planetarium and many interactive exhibits for children and adults alike.

A splendid location, relaxed respectability, and an urban lifestyle that is unsurpassed for its livability makes Portland a city to visit and remember.


</doc>
</xml>